    Title: Lab 6
    Date: 2019-09-24T23:28:00
    Tags: all
    Authors: Edgar Cobos

## Hash tables
During lab 6, we learned about hash tables, which are similar to lists, but have an additional feature: fast key base retrieval of information. We learned that the function `hash` creates immutable hash tables, whose values can be retrieved through the `hash-ref` function. In addition to these two functions, there is one more function, `hash-set`, that will update the hash table pretty fast as we learned by looking at the ht2 function. We practiced using this last function to count the times a given element occurs in a list and learned about `car`, which is like `first`, but works for both lists and pairs.

* Personally, I was already somehow familiar with the concept of hash tables from learning Swift that has a similar data structure called Enums.

## Plotting
Next, in order to play some more with the code from the calculus.rkt file from the previous lab, we added a provide statement to provide the definitions of 2pi, -2pi, and deriv. Then, we were able to compile and run the code from **plot-example.rkt**, which used the plot function to graph the functions resulting from the calculations in **calculus.rkt**. We also added a second call to plot to plot the difference between `(deriv sin x)` and `(cos x)`, finding out that we can modify the precision of our plot. I found this racket function very interesting as it allows you to plot different mathematical functions.

## JSON
Our last taks was to write a function **collect-status** to collect the status values from errors.json to be inserted into a hash table and viewed in the exlporer window. By implementing this function, we practiced some more using `map` and `hash-ref`. I found the data explorer tool useful, especially for debugging as it allows you to check if data has been properly read-in and stored. By the end of this lab, I can say that I have become more familiar to the the DrRacket IDE, which is a positive outcome.

<!-- more -->

