    Title: Lab 21
    Date: 2019-11-26T12:53:41
    Tags: all
    Authors: Edgar Cobos

## Working with grids

At the beginning of Lab 21, we reviewed some Octave syntax.

- `[-1:0.5:1]` creates an array containing all numbers from -1 to 1 with intervals of 0.5.

- Meshgrid takes in two arrays and meshes them into a single parallel array (i.e. `[X,Y] = meshgrid(r,r)`)

- `X.^2` will square all values of an array X.

## Defining and testing a function

Next, we looked at creating a function to evaluate the following: *δ(β, a, b) = βa·b - (β-1)b·b*. Wr used the `dot` function to calculate dot products as needed.

We were introduced to multi-line tests, which allows us to set up a test by initializing variables. We passed `eps` to our test as our error tolerance.

```matlab
%% delta(0,a,b) = |b|²
%!test
%! a = rand(2,1)
%! b = rand(2,1)
%! assert(delta(0,a,b), norm(b)^2, eps)
```

## Making 3D plots

For this part, we took the delta function and used it to build a #D surface map. The X and Y were created using the range function while Z was created using value **beta** of **7.5** and array **a** of **[4;4]**. The result was a symmetrical parabolic plot.

## Using `arrayfun`

In this part of the lab, we implemented the `arrayfun` function by using a mathematical function and applying it to the passed array. The following example calls `arrayfun` which iterates over both X and Y arrays and applies function `f` to them.

```matlab
f = @(x,y)(delta(beta, a, [x;y]));

Z = arrayfun(f,X,Y);
```

## Fully vectorizing

Out last task was to complete the faster vectorized function `arraydelta` by using the equation  `Z(i,j) = beta * (a(1)*X(i,j) + a(2)*Y(i,j)) - (beta-1) * (X(i,j)^2 + Y(i,j)^2)`. For this, we replaced the calls to `X(i,j)` and `Y(i,j)` with `X.` and `Y.` for Octave to apply the operations to all values of X and Y as follows:

```matlab
Z = beta * (a(1).*X + a(2).*Y) - (beta-1) * (X.^2 + Y.^2)
```

Timing for surfex, surfex2, and surfex3:

Elapsed time is 0.62296 seconds.

Elapsed time is 0.171985 seconds.

Elapsed time is 0.00023818 seconds.

<!-- more -->

