    Title: Lab 15
    Date: 2019-10-29T13:25:47
    Tags: all
    Authors: Edgar Cobos

## Problem Description

The lab started with a demo of postfix or reverse polish notation, where, opposite to infix notation, numbers are given first and then the desired operation. The demo was followed by a discussion of the requirements to write a program for a postfix calculator. As for the input requirements, the program should read and process lines of input one at a time, until it reads 'quit' on a line by itself. Each line of input will either be an integer, or a string `+, -, \*, /, ^, print, pop, swap, dup` representing an operation. The output will depend on the print operations from input, which results in printing the top element of the stack.

## Numbers

In this part of the lab, we created a file `rpn.py` containing given code to push integers into our stack. We then created another file `test_rpn.py` that imported the `process` definition from rpn and tested the `push` functionality. We also used this time to practice with producing test coverage reports by running pytest-3 with `--cov=rpn`.

## Arithmetic

Using an `if / elif / else` construction, we updated our implementation of `process` to pass tests for the required arithmetic operations (plus, minus, mult, div, and pow). In my case, I created a helper function `_arith` to handle the different operations whenever process is called with one of the arithmetic operations.

``` py
def _arith(op, a, b):
    if (op == "+"):
        stack.append(a+b)
    elif (op == "-"):
        stack.append(a-b)
    elif (op == "*"):
        stack.append(a*b)
    elif (op == "/"):
        stack.append(a//b)
    elif (op == "^"):
        stack.append(a**b)
```

## Improving robustness of the tests

In order to be able to make our tests indpenent, we added "clear" to our operations to reset the stack to empty with `stack.clear()`. We chose to clear the stack at the beginning of our tests as to not rely on other tests clearing it.

## Stack manipulation

We extended our `process` implementation to pass tests for the remaining operations (dup, pop,  swap, and print). We benefitted from Python's support of negative indexing for our implementation of **dup**. For my implementation of **swap**, I reused the `_arith` function to pop two values back in reverse order. Lastly, for our implementation of **print**, we chose to return the top element of the stack rather than working directly with stdout to aid in testing. 

## Processing Lists of Operations

In the last section of the lab, we completed the definition of `process_list` that takes a list of operations and returns a list of numbers depending on the prints from input. By this point, we fulfilled the input and output requirements for the postfix calculator.

``` py
def process_list(lines):
    out = []
    for line in lines:
        if (line == "quit"):
            break
        retv = process(line)
        if retv != None:
            out.append(retv)
        
    return out
```

<!-- more -->

