    Title: Lab 7
    Date: 2019-09-26T11:34:59
    Tags: all
    Authors: Edgar Cobos

## Macros

The first task of lab 7 was to define syntax rules for the boolean logic operations **and** and **or**. For this, we defined **And** so that it would make an evaluation between two arguments like the lower case version **and** would, except the short-circuit evaluation would be done from the right. We looked over a test submodule with `check-exn` that takes a *thunk* as an argument, or, as we learned, a function with zero paramters. In this case, lambda was used to delay evaluation in `check-exn` and it was pointed out that such boilerplate could be avoid with a syntax rule.

Our next task was to define **Or** in a similar way to **And** and test it out. I found this short-circuit evaluation relatively easy to implement and I considered it a good review of *Discrete Structures* and operations using boolean logic.

## Pattern Matching

We learned a new useful feature of racket called *pattern matching* as used in `syntax-case` and function definitions using `match`, which specifies a pattern to match against the data. We looked over an implementation of the function `my-map` that used `match` and compared it to its original implementation that used `cond`, helping us understand the application of `match`. Additionaly, we used the ... "collector pattern" as it is a common racket idiom. Then, we were instructed to implement let* in terms of let using a macro for which we had to complete the skeleton for the let-transformer module.

## From list transformers to macros

Finally, we used `syntax-case` in a similar way to how we used `match`, but this time to define the macro **Let^**. Using `syntax-case` eliminated the need to write a separate transformer. The patterns for this statement are analogous to match so our task only required to reverse engineer them.

<!-- more -->

