    Title: Lab 18
    Date: 2019-11-07T13:24:59
    Tags: all
    Authors: Edgar Cobos

## Counter
At the beginning of lab 18, we learned about generators, which provide a way of delaying function evaluation, generally to preserve memory. The function `make_counter` is an example of a simple generator that acts as a counter, with the particularity that it returns one number at a time. The keyword `yield` tells the interpreter to return the count when `next(make_counter(x))` is called.

``` py
def make_counter(x):
    print('entering make counter')
    while True:
        yield x
        print('incrementing x')
        x += 1
```

Next, we looked at closures to better understand generators by implementing the function `make_counter2`. The keyword `nonlocal` tells the function to look up in scope and get a reference to the variable count as opposed to creating a new variable. This is crucial as it allows us to save the value of count because the inner function is reset everytime it is called.

``` py
def make_counter2(x):
    count = x
    def counter():
        nonlocal count
        if count == x:
            print('entering make_counter')
        count = count + 1
        return count - 1
    return counter
```

## Fibonacci
After learning about generators and closures, we attempted to create a closure-generator to generate a Fibonacci sequence. This implementation was very similar to the previous function except that, instead of returning values indefinitely, we want to stop when a max value has been exceeded. This was accomplished by checking value of a and returning None when it exceeded the max.

``` py
def fib2(max):
    a,b = 0,1
    def next():
        nonlocal a,b
        if a < max:
                tmp = a
                a, b = b, a + b
                return tmp
        else:
                return None
    return next
```

## Sieve
In this part of the lab, we looked at the implementation of sieve created in Lab 16. The goal this time was to take the list comprehension used in `drop_divisible` and replace it with a generator.

``` py
def drop_divisible(n,lst):
    for x in lst:
        if x == n or x % n != 0:
            yield x
```

## Performance Comparison
Lastly, we compared the time usage by the list comprehension and generator implementations of `drop_divisible` from the previous part. The generator runs instantly, but this is because it only returns a generator object. In order to time the generator implementation appropiately we ran the returned the generated values through a list comprehension expression by using the returned generator. This test demonstrated that the generator implementation is 36% slower than the list comprehension implementation.

```
sieve=[2, 3, 5, 7]
sievegen=<generator object drop_divisible at 0x103087750>
0.96341959
0.002185341999999979
1.308970162
```

<!-- more -->

