    Title: Lab 10
    Date: 2019-10-08T13:55:40
    Tags: all
    Authors: Edgar Cobos

## JavaScript Objects

At the beginning of lab 10, we learned about objects in JavaScript. We tried out the `property` notation and concluded that a *method* in javascript is just a property that is  assigned to a function.

## Deep Comparison

Next, we wrote a function **deepEqual** to pass the provided tests. We learned about the `toEqual` matcher from Jasmine that can be compared to the `equal?` checker from Racket.

My **deepEqual** function ended up looking like this:

``` js
//deepEqual.js
function deepEqual(x, y) {
    if(x === null && y === null) {
        return true;
    }
    if(x === null || y === null) {
        return false;
    }
    if(typeof(x) == "object" && typeof(y) == "object") {
        for(let prop in x) {
            if(!(prop in y) || !(deepEqual(x[prop], y[prop]))) {
                return false;
            }
        }
        return true;
    }
    else {
        return (x === y);
    }
}

```

## JavaScript Arrays

In this part, we learned that arrays in JavaScript are actually implimented as objects, leading to some more weird behaviour. We also followed the first part of the **Sum of a Range Excercise** to write a **range** function to pass some provided tests. Once we were done, we followed the second part to write a **sum** function to also pass some more provided tests.

The **sum** function ended up looking like this:

``` js
//array.js
function sum(array) {
    let sum = 0;
    for(let i = 0; i < array.length; i++) {
        sum += array[i];
    }
    return sum;
}
```

## Variadic Functions

Then, we learned about variadic functions in JavaScript. We looked over three functions:

1. `makemap` - uses the `arguments` object (similar to an array of all arguments passed to the function)
2. `brag` - uses rest arguments similar to those in Racket
3. `win` - sets default valuet for a function parameter

Finally, we added an optional step argument to the previous **range** function so that it passed the new tests as well as the original tests.

The **range** function ended up looking like this:

``` js
//array.js
function range(start, end, step = 1) {
    let array = [];
    if(step < 0) {
        for(let i = start; i >= end; i+=step) {
            array.push(i);
        }
    }
    else {
        for(let i = start; i <= end; i+=step) {
            array.push(i);
        }
    }
    return array;
}
```

<!-- more -->

