    Title: Lab 14
    Date: 2019-10-24T12:41:17
    Tags: all
    Authors: Edgar Cobos

## First Example

In lab 14, we started looking at the Python programming language. The first excercise required us to download the file `humansize.py` and run it from terminal and in vscodium with the debugger. We also evaluated some expressions using the bottom prompt of the debugguer window in vscodium as well as by running `python3` in the terminal, which is the equivalent of evaluating expressions in the interactions area in DrRacket.

## Pytest

Next, we practiced writing unit tests using pytest. As an excercise, we downloaded the file `test_humansize.py` and ran it with `pytest-3` in the terminal. We also converted working examples from **DiP3 1.2.1** and learned to run the tests from within vscodium.

## Modules

Then, we went over modules in Python, for which we defined a new function that calls the function `approximate_size` from the humansize module, but has a default of False for the parameter `a_kilobyte_is_1024_bytes`. We also learned that code guarded by `if __name__ == '__main__'` does not run when importing the module.

The new function looked like this:

``` py
import humansize

def approximate_size(bytes, k_is_1024=False):
    return humansize.approximate_size(bytes, a_kilobyte_is_1024_bytes = k_is_1024)
```

## More testing, docstrings

In this part of the lab, we created `test_client.py` and added tests to make sure that the new function made sense and had a docstring by accessing it like so: `approximate_size.__doc__`.

## Indentation

Afterwards, we learned about Python's surprising use of indentation to define blocks by fixing the indentation in `fizzbuzz.py` and adding the missing case for Fizz to the FizzBuzz solution.

The corrected version of `fizzbuzz.py` looked like this:

``` py
for i in range(1,101):
    if (i%3 == 0 and i%5 == 0):
        print("FizzBuzz")
    elif (i%3==0):
        print("Fizz")
    elif (i%5 == 0):
        print("Buzz")
    else:
        print(i)
```

## Exceptions

In the last section, we modified `divisive.py` so that it would pass the provided tests and my solution ended up looking like this:

``` py
def fraction(a,b):
    if(b != 0):
        return a/b
    else:
        return "NaN"
```

<!-- more -->

