    Title: Lab 16
    Date: 2019-10-31T13:00:13
    Tags: all
    Authors: Edgar Cobos

## Globbing and List comprehensions

At the beginning of lab 16, we learned about list comprehensions, which provide a compact way of mapping a list into another list by applying a function to each of the elements of the list. As an excercise we constructed an equivalent list comprehension to a given for loop and tested it through `pytest`. One way to look at list comprehensions is as a convenient syntax for `map`, which is a familiar concept from both Racket and JavaScript. Although Python also has `map` and `lambda`, they are considered less idiomatic than using list comprehensions.

``` py
python_files_comp = [join(new_dir,file) for file in glob.glob("*.py")]

python_files_map = map(lambda file: join(new_dir,file), glob.glob("*.py"))
```

## Dictionary Comprehensions

Next, we learned about dictionary comprehensions, which are similar to list comprehensions, except that they use key-value format. As an exercise, we created a function `list2dict` to transform a list into a dictionary indexed by integers using a dictionary comprehension. Personally, I found this function easier to implement in python than the list->hash function in racket. The function was tested through `pytest` and used the python builtin range like so:

``` py
def list2dict(lst):
    return {i+1: lst[i] for i in range(len(lst))}
```

## Filtered List Comprehensions

Then, we practiced filtering a list of values using list comprehension and an if clause. In this case, our task was to re-implement the function `drop-divisible` we had wrote in racket. We also looked at the implementation of `sieve-with`, which updated the list on every iteration, something that could be done without mutation in Racket by tail recursion or for/foldl.

``` py
def drop_divisible(n,lst):
    return [elem for elem in lst if elem == n or elem % n != 0]
```

## Using `format`

In the last part of the lab, we looked at the different ways of constructing output. The simple way is by using the overloaded operator `+` while a more powerful way to combine values into a formatted output string is through the `format` method. We practiced writing a string equivalent to one produced using  `+` by using `format` like so:

``` py
strings_format = ["{}\t{:d}".format(file, os.stat(file).st_size) for file in glob.glob("*.py")]
```

<!-- more -->

