    Title: Lab 13
    Date: 2019-10-22T22:01:47
    Tags: all
    Authors: Edgar Cobos

##  Timers

At the beginning of Lab 13, we went over asynchronous programming in JavaScript. We looked at the `setTimout` function which takes in a callback function and an amount of time to wait before calling the function. This imitates a sleep function with some drawbacks. Since JavaScript runs asynchronously it will run code that is sequentially after the `setTimeout` call, which may produce an error linked to order of operations. In this case,  `setTimeout` was used in a function to print out an increasing number of `*`, imitating a progress bar, which looked like this:

``` js
function loop(i,str) {
    if (i>0) {
        console.log("\033c");
        console.log(str);
        setTimeout(function() { loop(i-1, str+"*"); }, 1000);
    }
    else {
        console.log("all done!");
    }
}

loop(20,"*");
```

After implementing our progress bar using the `setTimeout` function, we were introduced to `setInterval` and `clearInterval` that have the purpose to set up a recurring timer to call a function after a specified amount of time. In this case, the functions were used to again produce our own progress bar with a 300ms interaval before each additional `*`. Once the desired number of iterations was reached, the function printed "all done!" and cleared the interval.

``` js
function animate(iterations) {
    let i=0;
    let str="";
    let timer = null;
    function frame() {
        // add code here
        i++;
        str += "*";
        console.log('\033c');
        console.log(str);
        if (i>=iterations) {
            // and here
            console.log("all done");
            clearInterval(timer);
        }
    }
    timer=setInterval(frame,300);
}

animate(20);
```

##  Overloading toString

Next, we practiced method overloading by taking the  **VillageState** class from the previous lab and overloading the `toString` method to print a grid of places with the location of the robot.

``` js
toString() {
  let out="---------\n";
  for (let row=0; row<villageMap.length; row++) {
    out += "|";
    for (let col=0; col<villageMap[row].length; col++) {
      // your code goes here
      if(villageMap[row][col]===null)
        out += " ";
      else {
        if(this.place === villageMap[row][col])
          out += this.parcels.length;
        else
          out += villageMap[row][col].toLowerCase()[0];
      }
      out += "|";
    }
    out += "\n---------\n";
  }
  return out;
}
```

## Animating the map

The last section of the lab integrated all of the concepts from the previous parts to animate the progress of a robot delivering parcels.

Why does the last part where the robot wanders around with one parcel, typically take so long?
In order to reach the last part, the robot has to keep bouncing randomly between places until visiting the final place, which typically take a while.

<!-- more -->

