    Title: Lab 2
    Date: 2019-09-16T17:34:09
    Tags: all
    Authors: Edgar Cobos

In lab 2, I learned about several new concepts related to the Racket programming language, including: Definitions, Local Binding, Lexical Scope, Lists, and Modules. As a warm-up, I created a program that printed "hello world". After this, I started DrRacket and set it up by inserting #lang slideshow into the definitions area (top text area) to load some picture functions. By this point, I was ready to type some expressions into the interactions area (bottom text area), for DrRacket to evaluate and print their result. I evaluated function calls, such as the circle and the rectangle function that print a picture value of a specified size, which I found pretty interesting. Then, I learned about one last function, called hc-append, which basically combines pictures horizontally, and centers them vertically. Next, I learned about Definitions and added a function that printed a filled-rectange with equal sides of a specified length. Moreover, I learned about Local Binding and used the define form inside a function body to horizontally combine two pictures and be able to use this definition to vertically combine its results, creating a simple local binding. Additionally, I learned about two more forms of local binding: the let form that binds many identifiers at the same time, and the let* form that allows later bindings to use earlier bindings. By the end of this lab, I understand that Racket is a lexally scoped language, which means that whenever an identifier is used as an expression, something in the textual scope of the expression determines the identifier's binding. Also, I understand the list function as well as the map function that takes a list and a function to apply to each element of the list. Finally, I understand Modules and how to import additional libraries by using the require form.

<!-- more -->

