    Title: Lab 17
    Date: 2019-11-05T13:17:04
    Tags: all
    Authors: Edgar Cobos

## Splitting strings

At the beginning of lab 17, we practiced parsing CSV files using the split and splitlines builtin string methods as well as a list comprehencion. Splitlines helped us divide the table into rows while split(",") helped separate its columns.

``` py
[row.split(",") for row in string.splitlines()]
```

## Regular Expressions

Next, we got familiar with regular expressions by following the **street address Case Study**. As part of the excercise, we tried a series of evaluations in a python REPL, which lead us to the expression `re.sub('ROAD$', 'RD.', s)`. This 'black magic' that substituted only the ocurrence of "ROAD" at the end of the string with "RD." is possible thanks to regular expressions, a domain specific language that allow us to specify complicated string operations. As we kept trying other exaluations, we learned about the `\b` regex feature as well as the more fancier feature `[]` to denote a character class.

## Stripping Quotes

Following, we modified our `split_csv` function from part 1 to make it work for entries of CSV files that have quotes that are not part of the content. For this, we added the function `strip_quotes` that used the following regular expression:

``` py
def strip_quotes(string):
    strip_regex = re.compile(r'^"?([^"]+)"?$')
    search = strip_regex.search(string)
    if search:
        search.group(1)
    else:
        return None
```

* `^... - matches the start of the string`

* `...$ - matches the end of the string or just before the newline at the end of the string`

* `...? - causes the resulting RE to match 0 or 1 repetitions of the preceding RE`

* `(...) - matches whatever regular expression is inside the parentheses, and indicates the start and end of a group`

* `[^...] - used to indicate compliment of set of characters`

* `...+ - causes the resulting RE to match 1 or more repetitions of the preceding RE`

 ## Handling quoted commas

 In this part of the lab, we completed the definition of `split_row_3` using a regular expression that matches either a quoted or an unquoted column for each of three columns. Now `split_csv` was able to handle quoted commas in rows with exactly 3 columns by using the new function.

``` py
split_regex = re.compile(
    r'''^   # start
    ("[^"]*"|[^,]+)  # first column
    ,
    ("[^"]*"|[^,]+)  # second column
    ,
    ("[^"]*"|[^,]+)  # third column
    $''',
    re.VERBOSE
)
```

*with verbose regular expressions, whitespace as well as comments are ignored

## Parsing more columns

Lastly, we used our column matching regex, along with the `findall` methdod to match any number of columns in a new function `split_row` and used it in `split_csv` to test it.

``` py
def split_row(string):
    split_regex=re.compile(r'("[^"]*"|[^,]+)')
    search = split_regex.findall(string)
    if search:
        return [ strip_quotes(col) for col in search ]
    else:
        return None
```

*findall returns all non-overlapping matches of a pattern in a string as a list of strings

<!-- more -->

