    Title: Lab 3
    Date: 2019-09-16T22:36:05
    Tags: all
    Authors: Edgar Cobos

In Lab 3 of the Programming Languages Lab, the main focus was to start using the Racket programming language. Specifically, we reviewed recursion -a concept I was already familiar from Introduction to Computer Programming II- and the racket syntax. The first function that we looked  at was the my-map function, which basically takes a list of elements and passes them into a function that puts the output into a new list. We took this code and repurposed it to make a new function that takes an object, suppose a circle, and colors each element with a different color of the rainbow in a recursive manner. Understanding racket took a bit of time, but at the end of this lab, I feel more comfortable with its syntax and implementing basic recursive functions. Once we covered recursive functions we moved on to test submodules. For this, we used two functions for adding and multiplying from Dr. Bremener’s site. After adding test submodule with tests, we observed that the multiplication test failed, so our task was to fix the multiplication function. My solution was changing the base cases to return 0 if a is equal to 0 and return b if a is equal to 1 and else call the multiplication function again with (sub1 a) and b and add b to the result using the addition function already provided. When I ran the program, I finally observed no output from the tests, which meant success. Then, I enabled syntatic suit coverage in drracket and added 1 additional test for when a is equal to 0. Once I had complete test coverage, I commited the changes to git and pushed it to coursegit.

<!-- more -->

