    Title: Lab 19
    Date: 2019-11-20T10:36:55
    Tags: all
    Authors: Edgar Cobos



## Counters, generators, and classes
At the beginning of lab 19, we reviewed dunder methods in Python. We practiced implementing a `__next__` method which is called whenever an instance of the class is passed to the `next()` function. This is how our class ended up looking like:

``` py
class Counter:
	def __init__(self,x):
	    self.x = x
	    self.first = x

	def __next__(self):
	    if self.x == self.first:
		print('entering make_counter')
	    else:
		print('incrementing x')
	    self.x = self.x + 1
	    return self.x - 1
```

## Fibonacci, again
Next, we practice building an iterator class `Fib` by completing the definition of `__next__` basing our solution on the closure based version of fib from the previous lab. At this point, we where able to build a list by using an odd looking while loop, but not using some kind of list comprehension. This is due to the fact that our class is still not an iterator as we have not provided an `__iter__` method. This was fixed by adding the following to our class:


``` py
def __iter__(self):
    return self
```


However, this only signals to the Python runtime that some object is an iterator. The `__iter__` method should also serve to restart the traversal of our "virtual list". The `__iter__` method ended up looking like so:


``` py
def __iter__(self):
    self.a = 0
    self.b = 1
    return self
```

## Object copying and equality
In this part of the lab, we created a class `Expr` with methods `__init__` and `__eq__`. The `__init__` method can be compared to the constructor method in Java as its purpose is to initialize the values of instance members for new objects. For the `__eq__` method, we used vars to check if two objects have the same attributes.

``` py
def __init__(self, op, left, right):
    self.op = op
    self.left = left
    self.right = right

def __eq__(self, other):
    if isinstance(self, other.__class__):
        return vars(self) == vars(other)
    else:
        return NotImplemented
```


## Arithmetic
Lastly, we added an eval method to the `Expr` class using recursion to evaluate simple and compound arithmetic expressions.

``` py
def eval(self):
	def recur(branch):
	    if isinstance(branch, Expr):
		return branch.eval()
	    else:
		return branch

	left = recur(self.left)
	right = recur(self.right)

	if self.op == '+':
	    return left + right
	elif self.op == '*':
	    return left * right
```

<!-- more -->

